Basketball was originally played with a soccer ball. These round balls from "association football" were made, at the time, with a set of laces to close off the hole needed for inserting the inflatable bladder after the other sewn-together segments of the ball's cover had been flipped outside-in
The most popular team in the nba is the los angeles lakers.

The greatest basketball player of all time is Michael Jordan.

The most popular player in the nba today is Lebron James.

Shooting is the act of attempting to score points by throwing the ball through the basket, methods varying with players and situations.
A block is performed when, after a shot is attempted, a defender succeeds in altering the shot by touching the ball.

At the professional level, most male players are above 6 feet 3 inches tall (1.91 m) and most women above 5 feet 7 inches (1.70 m) tall.

The shortest player ever to play in the NBA is Muggsy Bogues at 5 feet 3 inches (1.60 m).

The tallest players ever in the NBA were Manute Bol and Gheorghe Mureșan, who were both 7 feet 7 inches (2.31 m) tall.

Invented in 1891 by Canadian-American gym teacher James Naismith in Springfield, Massachusetts, United States,
basketball has evolved to become one of the world's most popular and widely viewed sports.

The tallest player is usually the center, the second-tallest and strongest is the power forward,
a slightly shorter but more agile player is the small forward,
and the shortest players or the best ball handlers are the shooting guard and the point guard,
who implements the coach's game plan by managing the execution of offensive and defensive plays (player positioning).

Teams also have a coach, who oversees the development and strategies of the team,
and other team personnel such as assistant coaches, managers, statisticians, doctors and trainers.

The National Basketball Association (NBA) is the most significant professional basketball league in the world in terms of
popularity, salaries, talent, and level of competition.

At almost all levels of competition, the top of the rim is exactly 10 feet (3.05 meters) above the court and 4 feet (1.22 meters) inside the baseline.

There is a second category of fouls called technical fouls, which may
be charged for various rules violations including failure to properly record a player in the scorebook, or for unsportsmanlike conduct.

High schools and colleges began to introduce the new game, and by 1905, basketball was officially recognized as a permanent winter sport.

Two of the centers met at mid-court, Naismith tossed the ball, and the game of “basket ball” was born.

Two teams of five players each try to score by shooting a ball through a hoop elevated 10 feet above the ground.

The game is played on a rectangular floor called the court, and there is a hoop at each end.

A basketball team consists of five players.

Basketball is played with a ball and a hoop.

The positions of players in a basketball game are: Point guard, Shooting guard, Small forward, Power forward and center.

Basketball was first played on December 21, 1891.

Women's basketball was added to the Olympics in 1976.

As odd as it sounds, the game was initially played with a typical soccer ball as well as peach baskets.

The league we now know as the NBA was originally called the Basketball Association of America (BAA) and was founded on June 6, 1946.

The longest game in NBA history lasted 78 minutes and had 6 overtimes.

The official basketball size for men's competitive basketball is size 7, having a circumference of 29.5in or 75cm.

The official basketball size for women's competitive basketball is size 6, having a circumference of 28.5in or 72cm.

As per NBA rules, a minimum of nine balls are to be provided for each team for pre-game warmups.

FIBA, the world governing body for basketball, is an independent association formed by 213 National federations of basketball throughout the world.

FIBA regulates the transfer of players from one country to another.

Basketball was played for the first time in the Olympics at the Games of the XIth Olympiad in Berlin on August 1, 1936.

FIBA World Cup was previously called FIBA World Championship before it was rebranded and got its present name after the 2010 event.

Besides the Naismith trophy, teams can also get a qualification to the coming Olympics by doing well in the World Cup.

The USA and Yugoslavia have each won 5 championships and so they are the most successful teams in the history of the tournament.

The FIBA Basketball World Cup, known as the FIBA World Championship from 1950 through 2010, is a world basketball tournament for men's national teams held once every four years by the International Basketball Federation (FIBA).

In the early 1900s, basketball players played in cages of chicken wire and mesh to keep players from falling into spectator seats.

Originally, two teams of 9 players made up a basketball game, a number that was based on the standard number of players on a baseball team.

FIBA (Federation Internationale de Basket-ball Amateur) is the organization that governs basketball's international competition.

Movements distinct to basketball, such as jumping to take a shot or to grab a rebound, require frequent  muscle contractions , which can build muscular endurance.

The game was invented by Springfield College instructor and graduate student James Naismith in 1891, and has grown into the worldwide athletic phenomenon we know it to be today.

The original rules of basket ball were written by Springfield College graduate instructor James Naismith in December 1891 and published in January 1892 in the Springfield College school magazine, The Triangle.

The NBA basketball team from Dallas is the Dallas Mavericks.

The NBA basketball team from Los Angeles is the Los Angles Lakers and LA Clippers.

The NBA basketball team from Houston is the Houston Rockets.

The NBA basketball team from Charlotte is the Charlotte Hornets.

The NBA basketball team from San Antonio is the San Antonio Spurs.

The NBA basketball team from Boston is the Boston Celtics.

The NBA basketball team from Brooklyn is the Brooklyn Nets.

The NBA basketball team from New York is the New York Knicks.

The NBA basketball team from Philadelphia is the Philadelphia 76ers.

The NBA basketball team from Toronto is the Toronto Raptors.

The NBA basketball team from Chicago is the Chicago Bulls.

The NBA basketball team from Cleveland is the Cleveland Cavaliers.

The NBA basketball team from Detroit is the Detroit Pistons.

The NBA basketball team from Indiana is the Indiana Pacers.

The NBA basketball team from Milwaukee is the Milwaukee Bucks.

The NBA basketball team from Atlanta is the Atlanta Hawks.

The NBA basketball team from Miami is the Miami Heat.

The NBA basketball team from Orlando is the Orlando Magic.

The NBA basketball team from Washington is the Washington Wizards.

The NBA basketball team from Denver is the Denver Nuggets.

The NBA basketball team from Minnesota is the Minnesota Timberwolves.

The NBA basketball team from Oklahoma City is the Oklahoma City Thunder.

The NBA basketball team from Portland is the Portland Trailblazers.

The NBA basketball team from Utah is the Utah Jazz.

The NBA basketball team from Golden State is the Golden State Warriors.

The NBA basketball team from Phoenix is the Phoenix Suns.

The NBA basketball team from Sacramento is the Sacramento Kings.

The NBA basketball team from Memphis is the Memphis Grizzlies.

The NBA basketball team from New Orleans is the New Orleans Pelicans.

The NBA most valuable player last season was Giannis Antetokounmpo.

The NBA mvp last season was Giannis Antetokounmpo.

The 2019 / 2020 mvp was Giannis Antetokounmpo.

The Lakers and celtics have the most championships in nba history at 17 each.

The 2020 nba finals mvp was lebron james.

Michael Jordan holds the record for the most Finals MVP awards with six to his name, all with the Chicago Bulls.